docs/namespaces.md, before:

---
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Namespaces

## Workload Namespaces

### Namespace Creation Behavior in Bundles

When deploying a Fleet bundle, the specified namespace will automatically be
created if it does not already exist.

### Configuring Workload Namespaces

When configuring workload namespaces, it is important to be aware that certain
options are designed to override the values of other options or namespace
definitions in workload resources. In some cases, setting namespaces using some
options may result in errors if the resources to be deployed contain
non-namespaced resources. To get a better understanding of how these options
interact, refer to the diagram below. For more details on a specific option,
please refer to the [GitRepo](./ref-gitrepo.md) or
[fleet.yaml](./ref-fleet-yaml.md) reference.

![Configuring Workload Namespaces](/img/FleetWorkloadNamespaces.png)

### Cross Namespace Deployments

It is possible to create a GitRepo that will deploy across namespaces. The
primary purpose of this is so that a central privileged team can manage common
configuration for many clusters that are managed by different teams. The way
this is accomplished is by creating a `BundleNamespaceMapping` resource in a
cluster.

If you are creating a `BundleNamespaceMapping` resource it is best to do it in a
namespace that only contains `GitRepos` and no `Clusters`. It seems to get
confusing if you have Clusters in the same repo as the cross namespace
`GitRepos` will still always be evaluated against the current namespace. So if
you have clusters in the same namespace you may wish to make them canary
clusters.

A `BundleNamespaceMapping` has only two fields. Which are as below

```yaml
kind: BundleNamespaceMapping
apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: not-important
  namespace: typically-unique

# Bundles to match by label.  The labels are defined in the fleet.yaml
# labels field or from the GitRepo metadata.labels field
bundleSelector:
  matchLabels:
    foo: bar

# Namespaces to match by label
namespaceSelector:
  matchLabels:
    foo: bar
```

If the `BundleNamespaceMappings` `bundleSelector` field matches a `Bundles`
labels then that `Bundle` target criteria will be evaluated against all clusters
in all namespaces that match `namespaceSelector`. One can specify labels for the
created bundles from git by putting labels in the `fleet.yaml` file or on the
`metadata.labels` field on the `GitRepo`.

### Restricting GitRepos

A namespace can contain multiple `GitRepoRestriction` resources. All `GitRepos`
created in that namespace will be checked against the list of restrictions. If a
`GitRepo` violates one of the constraints its `BundleDeployment` will be in an
error state and won't be deployed.

This can also be used to set the defaults for GitRepo's `serviceAccount` and
`clientSecretName` fields.

```yaml
kind: GitRepoRestriction
apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: restriction
  namespace: typically-unique
allowedClientSecretNames: []
allowedRepoPatterns: []
allowedServiceAccounts: []
allowedTargetNamespaces: []
defaultClientSecretName: ""
defaultServiceAccount: ""
```

#### Allowed Target Namespaces

This can be used to limit a deployment to a set of namespaces on a downstream
cluster. If an allowedTargetNamespaces restriction is present, all `GitRepos`
must specify a `targetNamespace` and the specified namespace must be in the
allow list. This also prevents the creation of cluster wide resources.

## Fleet Namespaces

All types in the Fleet manager are namespaced. The namespaces of a custom
resource, e.g. GitRepo, does not influence the namespace of deployed resources.

Understanding how namespaces are used in the Fleet manager
is important to understand the security model and how one can use Fleet in a
multi-tenant fashion.

![Namespace](/img/FleetNamespaces.svg)

### GitRepos, Bundles, Clusters, ClusterGroups

All selectors for `GitRepo` targets will be evaluated against the `Clusters`
and `ClusterGroups` in the same namespaces. This means that if you give
`create` or `update` privileges to a `GitRepo` type in a namespace, that end
user can modify the selector to match any cluster in that namespace. This means
in practice if you want to have two teams self manage their own `GitRepo`
registrations but they should not be able to target each others clusters, they
should be in different namespaces.

The cluster registration namespace, called 'workspace' in Rancher, contains the `Cluster` and the
`ClusterRegistration` resources, as well as any `GitRepos` and `Bundles`.

Rancher will create two Fleet workspaces: **fleet-default** and
**fleet-local**.

- `fleet-default` will contain all the downstream clusters that are already
  registered through Rancher.
- `fleet-local` will contain the local cluster by default. Access to
  `fleet-local` is limited.

If you are using Fleet in a [single cluster](./concepts.md) style, the namespace
will always be **fleet-local**. Check
[here](https://fleet.rancher.io/namespaces/#fleet-local) for more on the
`fleet-local` namespace.

For a [multi-cluster](./concepts.md) style, please ensure you use the correct
repo that will map to the right target clusters.

### Internal Namespaces

#### Cluster Registration Namespace: fleet-local

The **fleet-local** namespace is a special namespace used for the single cluster
use case or to bootstrap the configuration of the Fleet manager.
Access to the local cluster should be limited to operators.

When fleet is installed the `fleet-local` namespace is created along with one
`Cluster` called `local` and one `ClusterGroup` called `default`. If no targets
are specified on a `GitRepo`, it is by default targeted to the `ClusterGroup`
named `default`. This means that all `GitRepos` created in `fleet-local` will
automatically target the `local` `Cluster`. The `local` `Cluster` refers to the
cluster the Fleet manager is running on.

#### System Namespace: cattle-fleet-system

The Fleet controller and Fleet agent run in this namespace. All service accounts
referenced by `GitRepos` are expected to live in this namespace in the
downstream cluster.

#### System Registration Namespace: cattle-fleet-clusters-system

This namespace holds secrets for the cluster registration process. It should
contain no other resources in it, especially secrets.

#### Cluster Namespaces

For every cluster that is registered a namespace is created by the Fleet manager
for that cluster. These namespaces are named in the form
`cluster-${namespace}-${cluster}-${random}`. The purpose of this namespace is
that all `BundleDeployments` for that cluster are put into this namespace and
then the downstream cluster is given access to watch and update
`BundleDeployments` in that namespace only.

Commit message:

Warn about removing workspace namespaces

docs/namespaces.md, after:

---
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Namespaces

## Workload Namespaces

### Namespace Creation Behavior in Bundles

When deploying a Fleet bundle, the specified namespace will automatically be
created if it does not already exist.

### Configuring Workload Namespaces

When configuring workload namespaces, it is important to be aware that certain
options are designed to override the values of other options or namespace
definitions in workload resources. In some cases, setting namespaces using some
options may result in errors if the resources to be deployed contain
non-namespaced resources. To get a better understanding of how these options
interact, refer to the diagram below. For more details on a specific option,
please refer to the [GitRepo](./ref-gitrepo.md) or
[fleet.yaml](./ref-fleet-yaml.md) reference.

![Configuring Workload Namespaces](/img/FleetWorkloadNamespaces.png)

### Cross Namespace Deployments

It is possible to create a GitRepo that will deploy across namespaces. The
primary purpose of this is so that a central privileged team can manage common
configuration for many clusters that are managed by different teams. The way
this is accomplished is by creating a `BundleNamespaceMapping` resource in a
cluster.

If you are creating a `BundleNamespaceMapping` resource it is best to do it in a
namespace that only contains `GitRepos` and no `Clusters`. It seems to get
confusing if you have Clusters in the same repo as the cross namespace
`GitRepos` will still always be evaluated against the current namespace. So if
you have clusters in the same namespace you may wish to make them canary
clusters.

A `BundleNamespaceMapping` has only two fields. Which are as below

```yaml
kind: BundleNamespaceMapping
apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: not-important
  namespace: typically-unique

# Bundles to match by label.  The labels are defined in the fleet.yaml
# labels field or from the GitRepo metadata.labels field
bundleSelector:
  matchLabels:
    foo: bar

# Namespaces to match by label
namespaceSelector:
  matchLabels:
    foo: bar
```

If the `BundleNamespaceMappings` `bundleSelector` field matches a `Bundles`
labels then that `Bundle` target criteria will be evaluated against all clusters
in all namespaces that match `namespaceSelector`. One can specify labels for the
created bundles from git by putting labels in the `fleet.yaml` file or on the
`metadata.labels` field on the `GitRepo`.

### Restricting GitRepos

A namespace can contain multiple `GitRepoRestriction` resources. All `GitRepos`
created in that namespace will be checked against the list of restrictions. If a
`GitRepo` violates one of the constraints its `BundleDeployment` will be in an
error state and won't be deployed.

This can also be used to set the defaults for GitRepo's `serviceAccount` and
`clientSecretName` fields.

```yaml
kind: GitRepoRestriction
apiVersion: fleet.cattle.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: restriction
  namespace: typically-unique
allowedClientSecretNames: []
allowedRepoPatterns: []
allowedServiceAccounts: []
allowedTargetNamespaces: []
defaultClientSecretName: ""
defaultServiceAccount: ""
```

#### Allowed Target Namespaces

This can be used to limit a deployment to a set of namespaces on a downstream
cluster. If an allowedTargetNamespaces restriction is present, all `GitRepos`
must specify a `targetNamespace` and the specified namespace must be in the
allow list. This also prevents the creation of cluster wide resources.

## Fleet Namespaces

All types in the Fleet manager are namespaced. The namespaces of a custom
resource, e.g. GitRepo, does not influence the namespace of deployed resources.

Understanding how namespaces are used in the Fleet manager
is important to understand the security model and how one can use Fleet in a
multi-tenant fashion.

![Namespace](/img/FleetNamespaces.svg)

### GitRepos, Bundles, Clusters, ClusterGroups

All selectors for `GitRepo` targets will be evaluated against the `Clusters`
and `ClusterGroups` in the same namespaces. This means that if you give
`create` or `update` privileges to a `GitRepo` type in a namespace, that end
user can modify the selector to match any cluster in that namespace. This means
in practice if you want to have two teams self manage their own `GitRepo`
registrations but they should not be able to target each others clusters, they
should be in different namespaces.

The cluster registration namespace, called 'workspace' in Rancher, contains the `Cluster` and the
`ClusterRegistration` resources, as well as any `GitRepos` and `Bundles`.

Rancher will create two Fleet workspaces: **fleet-default** and
**fleet-local**.

- `fleet-default` will contain all the downstream clusters that are already
  registered through Rancher.
- `fleet-local` will contain the local cluster by default. Access to
  `fleet-local` is limited.

:::warning important information

Deleting the workspace, cluster registration namespace, will delete all the clusters within that namespace.
This will uninstall all deployed bundles, except for the fleet agent, from the deleted clusters.

:::

If you are using Fleet in a [single cluster](./concepts.md) style, the namespace
will always be **fleet-local**. Check
[here](https://fleet.rancher.io/namespaces/#fleet-local) for more on the
`fleet-local` namespace.

For a [multi-cluster](./concepts.md) style, please ensure you use the correct
repo that will map to the right target clusters.

### Internal Namespaces

#### Cluster Registration Namespace: fleet-local

The **fleet-local** namespace is a special namespace used for the single cluster
use case or to bootstrap the configuration of the Fleet manager.
Access to the local cluster should be limited to operators.

When fleet is installed the `fleet-local` namespace is created along with one
`Cluster` called `local` and one `ClusterGroup` called `default`. If no targets
are specified on a `GitRepo`, it is by default targeted to the `ClusterGroup`
named `default`. This means that all `GitRepos` created in `fleet-local` will
automatically target the `local` `Cluster`. The `local` `Cluster` refers to the
cluster the Fleet manager is running on.

#### System Namespace: cattle-fleet-system

The Fleet controller and Fleet agent run in this namespace. All service accounts
referenced by `GitRepos` are expected to live in this namespace in the
downstream cluster.

#### System Registration Namespace: cattle-fleet-clusters-system

This namespace holds secrets for the cluster registration process. It should
contain no other resources in it, especially secrets.

#### Cluster Namespaces

For every cluster that is registered a namespace is created by the Fleet manager
for that cluster. These namespaces are named in the form
`cluster-${namespace}-${cluster}-${random}`. The purpose of this namespace is
that all `BundleDeployments` for that cluster are put into this namespace and
then the downstream cluster is given access to watch and update
`BundleDeployments` in that namespace only.
