docs/webhook.md, before:

# Using Webhooks Instead of Polling

By default, Fleet utilizes polling (default: 15 seconds) to pull from a Git repo.However, this can be configured to utilize a webhook instead.Fleet currently supports Github,
GitLab, Bitbucket, Bitbucket Server and Gogs.

### 1. Configure the webhook service. Fleet uses a gitjob service to handle webhook requests. Create an ingress that points to the gitjob service.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: webhook-ingress
  namespace: cattle-fleet-system
spec:
  rules:
  - host: your.domain.com
    http:
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
          backend:
            service:
              name: gitjob
              port:
                number: 80
```

:::info

You can configure [TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls) on ingress.

:::

### 2. Go to your webhook provider and configure the webhook callback url. Here is a Github example.

![](/img/webhook.png)

Configuring a secret is optional. This is used to validate the webhook payload as the payload should not be trusted by default.
If your webhook server is publicly accessible to the Internet, then it is recommended to configure the secret. If you do configure the
secret, follow step 3.

:::note

only application/json is supported due to the limitation of webhook library.

:::

:::caution

If you configured the webhook the polling interval will be automatically adjusted to 1 hour.

:::

### 3. (Optional) Configure webhook secret. The secret is for validating webhook payload. Make sure to put it in a k8s secret called `gitjob-webhook` in `cattle-fleet-system`.

| Provider        | K8s Secret Key                   |
|-----------------| ---------------------------------|
| GitHub          | `github`                         |
| GitLab          | `gitlab`                         |
| BitBucket       | `bitbucket`                      |
| BitBucketServer | `bitbucket-server`               |
| Gogs            | `gogs`                           |

For example, to create a secret containing a GitHub secret to validate the webhook payload, run:

```shell
kubectl create secret generic gitjob-webhook -n cattle-fleet-system --from-literal=github=webhooksecretvalue
```

### 4. Go to your git provider and test the connection. You should get a HTTP response code.

Commit message:

webhook.md: add scalability/performance considerations
Discussion about an affected use case is available on the internal case SURE-6779.

docs/webhook.md, after:

# Using Webhooks Instead of Polling

By default, Fleet utilizes polling (default: every 15 seconds) to pull from a Git repo. This is a convenient default that works reasonably well for a small number of repos (up to a few tens).

For installations with multiple tens up to hundreds of Git repos, and in general to reduce latency (the time between a push to Git and fleet reacting to it), configuring webhooks is recommended instead of polling.

Fleet currently supports Github, GitLab, Bitbucket, Bitbucket Server and Gogs.

### 1. Configure the webhook service. Fleet uses a gitjob service to handle webhook requests. Create an ingress that points to the gitjob service.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: webhook-ingress
  namespace: cattle-fleet-system
spec:
  rules:
  - host: your.domain.com
    http:
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
          backend:
            service:
              name: gitjob
              port:
                number: 80
```

:::info

You can configure [TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls) on ingress.

:::

### 2. Go to your webhook provider and configure the webhook callback url. Here is a Github example.

![](/img/webhook.png)

Configuring a secret is optional. This is used to validate the webhook payload as the payload should not be trusted by default.
If your webhook server is publicly accessible to the Internet, then it is recommended to configure the secret. If you do configure the
secret, follow step 3.

:::note

only application/json is supported due to the limitation of webhook library.

:::

:::caution

If you configured the webhook the polling interval will be automatically adjusted to 1 hour.

:::

### 3. (Optional) Configure webhook secret. The secret is for validating webhook payload. Make sure to put it in a k8s secret called `gitjob-webhook` in `cattle-fleet-system`.

| Provider        | K8s Secret Key                   |
|-----------------| ---------------------------------|
| GitHub          | `github`                         |
| GitLab          | `gitlab`                         |
| BitBucket       | `bitbucket`                      |
| BitBucketServer | `bitbucket-server`               |
| Gogs            | `gogs`                           |

For example, to create a secret containing a GitHub secret to validate the webhook payload, run:

```shell
kubectl create secret generic gitjob-webhook -n cattle-fleet-system --from-literal=github=webhooksecretvalue
```

### 4. Go to your git provider and test the connection. You should get a HTTP response code.
